[DOCS-2174] Database Monitoring product documentation (#11195)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/database_monitoring/setup_mysql/gcsql.md

END $$
DELIMITER ;
GRANT EXECUTE ON PROCEDURE <YOUR_SCHEMA>.explain_statement TO datadog@'%';
```

### Runtime setup consumers
Datadog recommends that you create the following procedure to give the Agent the ability to enable `performance_schema.events_statements_*` consumers at runtime.

```SQL
DELIMITER $$
CREATE PROCEDURE datadog.enable_events_statements_consumers()
    SQL SECURITY DEFINER
BEGIN
    UPDATE performance_schema.setup_consumers SET enabled='YES' WHERE name LIKE 'events_statements_%';
END $$
DELIMITER ;
GRANT EXECUTE ON PROCEDURE datadog.enable_events_statements_consumers TO datadog@'%';
```

### Verify

Verify the user was created successfully using the following commands, replacing `<UNIQUEPASSWORD>` with the password you created above:

```shell
mysql -u datadog --password=<UNIQUEPASSWORD> -e "show status" | \
grep Uptime && echo -e "\033[0;32mMySQL user - OK\033[0m" || \
echo -e "\033[0;31mCannot connect to MySQL\033[0m"
```
```shell
mysql -u datadog --password=<UNIQUEPASSWORD> -e "show slave status" && \
echo -e "\033[0;32mMySQL grant - OK\033[0m" || \
echo -e "\033[0;31mMissing REPLICATION CLIENT grant\033[0m"
```

## Install the Agent

> To monitor Cloud SQL hosts, the Agent should be installed somewhere in your infrastructure and configured to connect to each instance remotely. The agent does not need to run on the database, it only needs to connect to it. For additional Agent installation methods not mentioned here, see the [Agent installation instructions][5].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To monitor Cloud SQL hosts, install the Datadog Agent in your infrastructure and configure it to connect to each instance remotely. The Agent does not need to run on the database, it only needs to connect to it. For additional Agent installation methods not mentioned here, see the [Agent installation instructions][5].
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Host" %}}

To configure this check for an Agent running on a host, for example when you provision a small GCE instance for the Agent to collect from a Google Cloud SQL database:

Edit the `mysql.d/conf.yaml` file, in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your [Agent's configuration directory][1]. See the [sample mysql.d/conf.yaml][2] for all available configuration options, including those for custom metrics.

Add this configuration block to your `mysql.d/conf.yaml` to collect MySQL metrics:

```yaml
init_config:

instances:
  - dbm: true
    host: '<INSTANCE_ADDRESS>'
    port: 3306
    username: datadog
    password: '<UNIQUEPASSWORD>' # from the CREATE USER step earlier
```

**Note**: Wrap your password in single quotes in case a special character is present.

[Restart the Agent][3] to start sending MySQL metrics to Datadog.

[1]: /agent/guide/agent-configuration-files/#agent-configuration-directory
[2]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/mysql/datadog_checks/mysql/data/conf.yaml.example
[3]: /agent/guide/agent-commands/#start-stop-and-restart-the-agent
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Docker" %}}

> To configure the Database Monitoring Agent running in a Docker container such as in Google Cloud Run, you can set the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][1] as Docker labels on your agent container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the Database Monitoring Agent running in a Docker container such as in Google Cloud Run, set the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][1] as Docker labels on your Agent container.
```

> **Note**: the Agent must have read permission on the docker socket for Autodiscovery of labels to work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: The Agent must have read permission on the Docker socket for Autodiscovery of labels to work.
```
